Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe
Erin Smith: Shoes on,
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how has it been since our last session.
Erin Smith: It's been good. I went down on the buprenorphine.
Gwenevere Abriel: How many like half a milligram a full milligram how far
Erin Smith: two milligrams
Gwenevere Abriel: Really, that's very fast. Did you do it all at once.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah you did. And no, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess I'm getting scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Make sure you're not going
Erin Smith: Yeah. Um, well, because I was on a pretty high dose. I still am. I feel like I'm so as on 18 milligrams a day. So I'm on 16 milligrams a day now.
Erin Smith: And he said, Yes, generally we go really slow kind of what you were describing and he likes to time it with what's going on in life.
Erin Smith: So I think it helps that I told him that you felt like it was a good time because he worries about like if something stressful is going on and not reacting well to
Erin Smith: Right. Anyway, um, he felt like since I was on such a high dose, um, that the two milligrams wouldn't be that big that it would be, it would be okay. This time, but then, you know, in the future, when we get down to lower doses will have to go slower.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, can I voice. My concern. So at least I've heard myself say it.
Erin Smith: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I've been watching a lot of people taper.
Erin Smith: It'll be
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, can't be three years in June.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now it could be. I might be here three years in June. Can't believe it's gone that fast will be there two or three. I don't know. I'm not being denied so
Gwenevere Abriel: High doses, it looks like the sensitivity right there's sort of that threshold that kind of maximum gain from something. And so you're right in that area. It's pretty high, like we don't think people don't benefit much from much more from where you're at.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so the opposite might be true when you taper down. It does surprise me that you didn't notice any withdrawal symptoms dropping down to milligrams. It does surprise me a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I hear people describing is a runny nose, it's very different for everybody's body runny nose, sneezing, some hot, cold sweats a little bit of leg cramps, a little bit of heightened what they call anxiety.
Gwenevere Abriel: Meaning, I'm assuming, because they go like this, that they're talking about a flushing of the skin. Maybe elec accelerated heart rate rapid short breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you didn't notice any of that.
Erin Smith: Well, so I've had a really long week. Um, I worked four nights in a row. So my body hurts. And I've had this allergy runny nose thing for a while. So it's not different than what I would expect. I guess I don't necessarily feel increased anxiety.
Erin Smith: I don't think I think it
Erin Smith: I don't feel it in my chest like what you're describing, but my body hurts. I just think it's I assumed it was because I'm exhausted, and this was a hard weekend.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. So just to review every symptom is unlikely. It is one or two, or none. It's I listed common ones. And you may know them right from the full withdrawal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Potential. Right. But typically, so that's a good thing what that says to me is you may not have very sticky receptors. Right. Now, this might be an easy window so much like what your physician just said when they're lower, but I don't know what he's considered. What's he consider lower
Erin Smith: What do you mean
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you said let's go slower at a lower dose. What's a lower dose. What's a number
Erin Smith: Oh, I don't know. He didn't give me a number. Yeah.
Erin Smith: I would want to know what they did.
Erin Smith: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. She's difficult to what
Erin Smith: He can be difficult to talk to. So sometimes I mean, easy to talk to. Like he's easy to ask questions. He's a nice guy and all that he's a bit older and I feel like we have the same conversation over and over
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just keep talking. Let's just keep, you know, because you're getting one other perspectives. It's yours and wherever else you're getting information and it's his. And so if we all are talking and talking and talking
Gwenevere Abriel: We're all on your side. We all want you to have a successful outcomes. So let's um
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's what
Gwenevere Abriel: I
Gwenevere Abriel: have watched. I'll just regurgitate I'll just say, Okay, this is what I've seen. I've seen people that taper no faster than one milligram every
Gwenevere Abriel: Seven to 14 days.
Gwenevere Abriel: When they're on a taper down protocol.
Gwenevere Abriel: Seems to work. In other words, every couple weeks. They say, Okay, I'll go down another milligram. Okay, I'll go down another milligram. Some people come back.
Gwenevere Abriel: And they have very sticky receptors and their distress level know whether it's psychological psychosomatic. How am I ever know. I only base it on me, I'll report.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I want people to succeed. So if they're just they're describing their distress is up there in from zero to 10 it's up there in the seven and eight. I'm concerned. So we pull it back and maybe we'll do it at half a milligram because I want people to succeed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or then point two five taper at a time, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, because if they say to themselves, this is catastrophic. Oh, oh no, oh no, we're not going to succeed.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess my concern is, I've never seen anyone go down two milligrams at a time, all at once, but it seemed to work for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: My concern time, this time is his plan and you don't know because again, he might raise kind of a hard person. Sometimes the dog too.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would be concerned that if you go down two milligrams than two milligrams into because to sounds like it's nothing but my understanding of the potency is equivalent to 20 milligrams of morphine per milligram of Suboxone so that's all a lot of medicine.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, I'd be concerned. So that's what you're seeing over here. It's kind of me wanting to protect you, not wanting you to have a negative experience and come back and say, I don't want to take her
Erin Smith: So no i i agree, and I think it's good because I think it's helpful to know what you think, and I think because then because he cares to, you know, because he wants to make sure we're not doing this.
Erin Smith: You know, difficult time or whatever. Um, I guess. How do you go down by point two five or by point five milligrams. So because it comes from like the strip so i don't i
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll show you. I'll show you what I have taken take a screenshot of this are you on eight milligram strip
Erin Smith: Now I am, yes. All right. Let me pull this up.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's different for people that are on a tablet for people that are on a tablet, you get those little scales, because you're going to have to have a very sensitive scale. Some people don't get the scale. They try and just cut the bill into
Gwenevere Abriel: Tablets, and then it gets it turns into dust. I mean, I honestly
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know how people do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Carefully, you know, with fidelity, but I'm going to show you
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll be talking while I'm doing this, which is to have a
Gwenevere Abriel: Eye contact lens case might be a good thing to have.
Gwenevere Abriel: For storage.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's going to get down to the point where we're normally you know if it's a one milligram pill.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can just write the pill in half and we can leave it in the bottle. But this is a really unique substance. So when you cut the film and cut it again and cut it again. You might have tiny little pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the pharmacies insurance rather is not going to want to reimburse when you still have medication, left, right. So you're going to want to really know what those doses are so for some people.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not like lens cases you might have a little box that has it labeled this is
Gwenevere Abriel: Point two, five milligrams. This is one milligram. This is point seven five milligram so that when you go back and you are ingesting and you're taking the substance yourself. You can put add it up and do the math.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or maybe you recognize the size of things, but being really careful about what you cut off and labeling is going to be handy.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, here we go. Yeah, yeah. Alright, so this is
Here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you take basically
Gwenevere Abriel: You're on 60 milligrams. That's this blue area right here.
Erin Smith: Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so 16 milligrams is
Gwenevere Abriel: For the week, like this is her calculations. This is her her way of having the numbers available for her because she's a prescribing doctor so she knows how many strips to give
Gwenevere Abriel: So if it's 16 each trip is eight milligrams when they're cutting back a milligram
Gwenevere Abriel: What they're doing is they take one whole strip than they take a strip and they're measuring and they're taking one one eighth off so they cut it in half, they cut it in a fourth and they cut it in half again.
Gwenevere Abriel: And they've got their piece right
Gwenevere Abriel: They kind of use this as a reference point.
Gwenevere Abriel: At some point, you're down way down the line, they're probably your doctor may decide to put you on a four milligram strip, it'll be easier to cut it. There's some upsides to that there are some downsides to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I've noticed. Again, it's just secondhand but pretty consistently what people describe even on the strip itself. You can see the medicine sort of laid out. And if you're ever given an off label one a generic brand.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll see that the disbursement of the medicine is not consistent throughout the strip and which set course that means that when you're taking a piece of it off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe the heavily weighted piece was that piece you just took off. And so you might experience just write some degree of
Gwenevere Abriel: Withdrawal because you've taken a lesser potent portion anyway. Notice how it's very specific. It's so precise and I've learned this from people that have very sticky receptors and and this is how they're reporting it now, whether it's totally and I'm getting snowed. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Live from
Gwenevere Abriel: I leave room for me. I'm just reporting it as I hear it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But pretty consistently people have said that. So, and one person took a picture. As you can see that it was, um, I think it was a doctor ready brand.
Gwenevere Abriel: Something like that anyway. And so there's different brands out there. And so when you switch brands also that can happen to be very, very careful. You can go down, it'll feel like a drop off between one milligram that or one and a half milligrams, all of a sudden, so it's
Gwenevere Abriel: All Suboxone is not created equal.
Erin Smith: Yeah. Well, I've noticed that a lot of myths look
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. What do you think of that. I mean, certainly, so you have you have some direct knowledge of that. Anyway, so
Gwenevere Abriel: I you saw me get a little concerned with the two and you know I guess what I would like to see as nice seamless flow of tapering down and wherever down is to him. I don't know what he means because watch I've watched people between
Gwenevere Abriel: eight and six. They get sticky all the sudden these last
Gwenevere Abriel: You know opiate receptors, the ones who are normally. They're filled with this little stragglers are hanging out and then it's on the third day, and then it's the fourth and if they're just really hanging on tight and they still want medicine. These little receptors.
Gwenevere Abriel: That happens between this and then for other people it's between two and one. I mean, we don't know when it's going to happen.
Erin Smith: That's why we keep community.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not a set in stone thing. Gotta keep talking and communicating say this is a tough period. I want to be tapering at a half a milligram now that I'm feeling it too much. I want to. I'm getting myself scared getting scared. Maybe the move on. Again, we want to hear about it.
Erin Smith: Yeah.
Erin Smith: Okay, I can do that. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cool.
Erin Smith: But I assume well is to get off all the way right
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, okay. So here's what I do so as not to have clients get into a panic. Um, I look at I separate the different treatment plans. I say this one we're on a taper down mode where you and I are on a taper down
Gwenevere Abriel: And we might say it's I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: getting you to a sort of a safe medical dose, which means maybe the side effects aren't as prolific it also might mean, let's say you were pulled into urgent care and emergency department.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you would be able to either take more Suboxone as an analgesic or be able to take another substance use, you know what I'm talking about right there. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it would overcome right the nail tracks on this in or whatever but up here at such high dose that's going to be a very difficult challenge on this, not too much higher. We can go to have the analgesic effect. So you're in that place right now where there's not much to do with you.
ketamine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we had to kind of thing. But you you want more options. I'm assuming if there was an emergency.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead.
Erin Smith: Well, I mean, that's how I got into this situation was I ended up in the emergency room with my finger. Hey off maybe I would have been better off not
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you having been informed.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what I mean, like, really have maybe having been informed of
Gwenevere Abriel: This very legit how chemically dependent people can get on to this substance. There's no doubt now where you place right on on Percocet, or you know oxy codeine or or right onto Suboxone
Erin Smith: Known purpose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm, okay. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's talk about the
Industry.
Erin Smith: Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So these two treatment plan. So the first one is, for me it's just to sort of mitigate the panic that happens with off. What do you mean, off, off I'm left to myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to leave me alone with my own emotions facing my life on my own. What are you talking about, I'm not ready. I'm not ready. So I run into that a lot like this like raw and maybe you saw a little bit of that with your doctor to, like, I sure you're ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I do is I say, Okay, let's just get to taper down. Let's just go there and then will you say let's say you get down to
Gwenevere Abriel: One milligram two milligrams three milligrams, wherever. Right. That's a down. That's a low dose right that's
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you say, let's say you're on it for a month. You're on it for two and you're like, wow.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm doing this coping mechanism. I'm remembering this one I'm changing my relationship with these important people I've gone places I couldn't have gone before like physically gone to different places.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice the late my relationship with my own memories is changing. I noticed my own relationship with anxiety with fear with sadness is changing and I'm liking it. I'm feeling more adaptive. Let's say that's the message that's in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I say okay
Gwenevere Abriel: What if we went on a taper off treatment plan. What would that be like, and then you obviously you're working with a different position. I don't know his philosophy. I'll just tell you what that looks like. Over here. Hey,
Gwenevere Abriel: What that looks like over here. Let's say you're working with Dr Arielle what she does is she says, Let me have a nice long weekend. Let me have three days, four days where I can watch you very closely we get you on just like let's say for three days.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, how does it go. I gotta remember because I'm not a physician, right. So I think it's like this thing for
Gwenevere Abriel: Two weeks you're on point two five. I think you get all the way down 2.25 for like two weeks, something like minimum of three days, then you're off. I think you're off, clean, clean for two or three, then you're on the Naltrexone right but she's i'm also inviting
Gwenevere Abriel: A benzodiazepine benzodiazepine trying to remember which one out of him. I think it might be that one really strong one so that you can kind of get through the worst because those last little guys. They don't want to go.
Gwenevere Abriel: They fight you. So you're gonna probably gorse everybody's different have have have some withdrawal symptom present right because the view.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now track some completely kicks off anything that's left
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's that could be unpleasant. We don't know. But it'd be nice to be able to sleep through the misery. But if you have this sort of thing. Well, I don't know, want to get chemically dependent on a benzo
Gwenevere Abriel: Which is not going to happen over one episode of us, you know that. But maybe but but still I have to respect the fear if that's the fear, then we've got a you going to tough it out, you might take quantity
Gwenevere Abriel: You might take on this other piece around Gatto Penton or whatever it is. But my point is, is over the week that that weekend your watch very closely might be checking in 123 times a day with the physician. How we doing, how we doing, how we doing
Gwenevere Abriel: To make sure you're getting support throughout it and then you stay. I think on the know truck son for a month. I don't know. It's the best. I don't have a lot of people that have gone on the author and they either leave me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. They move a lot of people leave the state.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have the, the provision of the service in the particular state they've chosen. I have had to
Gwenevere Abriel: Successfully go through this and they've maintained their sobriety, so that's exciting to hear. I know that's not a great number but to have to. It's pretty good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of like that, but there was some discomfort right at the end. The wasn't the big kick, but it was it was uncomfortable. So having creating those three days or so might be a good idea just to make sure you're not letting a commitment of work or family obligations.
Gwenevere Abriel: So does any of that sounds like, Oh, that's weird. That's different, or this all sounds familiar.
Erin Smith: It all sounds pretty familiar because he's never actually said wean off. He's always said we down. We've never he's never implied that we were good. I just assumed that that was the goal because in the past.
Erin Smith: That's been you know if I've been on opiates. That's always been the goal, but right
Gwenevere Abriel: It's, it's really weird in in
Gwenevere Abriel: In this particular arena, the Methadone mentality seems to have been adopted.
Gwenevere Abriel: That it's like forever. You're going to be on it forever. So the clients that come in to see us here are like, I'm going to be on this forever. So it's a real like
Gwenevere Abriel: eye opener for most of them like, What do you mean take her take her right it's they're thinking that same philosophy and it's
Gwenevere Abriel: There are doctors that have that and some that don't. I work with, with
Gwenevere Abriel: The two doctors that are from the taper down and if the client wants to on the taper off.
Gwenevere Abriel: And. And typically what happens is the first time I meet with the individual
Gwenevere Abriel: They'll say what their goal is. And you've probably heard me say, Well, what's your goal around the op us, what's your goal. Well, I want to eventually come off of it. I'll write that down. And that will follow us throughout treatment.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll be continuously checking with that. And did they want to come all the way off, or did they just, you know, I'll be looking at it. Most people say, I want to be off of everything. I don't want to be chemically dependent. So that steers the treatment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Great it. The point is, we weren't born to have to take this stuff. Yes. Our brain does heal.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have to be on it forever. You know, and if if what you come to find out is, oh I I felt normal. Finally, or I was treating really my anxiety, more than I was right, pain, then that's part of regular conversation we have, we've got to be talking about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I assume I'm really correctly so that many people are treating what they call anxiety and depression, fear, sadness, their self medicating
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so what that's that's what most people that identify as chemically dependent and addicted are doing. That's pretty standard. So I want people to develop the coping skills so that they can need life sort of on those terms directly
Erin Smith: Right.
Erin Smith: And that's what feels like we have been doing that, like described me pretty quickly.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think so too. I think so too. You have taken anything that I've ever sort of done with you in here. The next time I check in.
Gwenevere Abriel: You sound like you're actually implementing the new skills. You really do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your you try them on. Did it work. Did I remember him. How did it work I combined a couple of things. This one I did more of this one was easier. This one was more effective.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're really applying them and that's that's the way this is going to work because the little skills. Let's say that whether it's imagery or it's the breath work that is the medicine and you're either going to take it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which means applying it in your life or you won't. But my just talking about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm going to do it, you're gonna have to really apply them and you are doing it.
Erin Smith: What feel like it makes me a more effective human to say, I know that sounds weird, but I think it does. So it just it recently.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me more about that. I'd like to hear
Erin Smith: Well, I had
Erin Smith: A frustrating. Well, I worked a lot this weekend, and it was those shifts with those texts that I just struggle with, for whatever reason,
Erin Smith: I'm just different personalities. I don't know what it is it you know we've talked to, like, it's an emergency room they're incredibly slow it drives me nuts. And I think that i've been i've never
Erin Smith: Been so frustrated at work that I've wanted to literally yell at them before until this weekend. Um, and I was really worried that I was going to
Erin Smith: Um, we had a look like they were incredibly slow I luckily we didn't have necessarily any real
Erin Smith: Critical patients it, I guess. It started out on Saturday night. I started getting frustrated because um what had happened is the doctor that was on before me had sent home of patients kind of against medical advice and that was in respiratory distress, but she had sent off an X ray report.
Erin Smith: To a radiologist to be read. So I called the owner with the results and the results were consistent with congestive heart failure. So I again reiterate it to her that she really should bring the dog back and we should hospitalize it because without treatment. These guys don't do well.
Erin Smith: And she decided to bring the dog back so we knew before they got there, that the dog wasn't congestive heart failure. So we knew you know what needed to be done and I had
Erin Smith: You know prep them for what we needed to do. We needed to put an IV in the dog. So we can start giving it some Lasix and get it and oxygen and
Erin Smith: We had one other patient. There's not even that busy for an emergency room just one other patient who was there for GI stuff so completely stable just an upset stomach basically
Erin Smith: Um, but I could not pry them away from the stable patients to come, put an IV in the unstable patient so that we could get Lasix in it.
Erin Smith: Even the assistant. When you know setting up to get the IBM and all that. So anyway, I was I was, and I had two technicians there and I I finally said to them,
Erin Smith: I, you know, it's great that you guys are working together on this, but could be possibly SPLIT UP AND MAYBE ONE PERSON PERSON work on this patient and one person work on the other patients, that's me. I just have to patients. Right now, it's easy to do.
Erin Smith: And all I got was, you know, a snapback. Well, I'm just telling her what I was doing on that patient and I'll get to that as soon as I can, you know, just like
Erin Smith: So I, you know, then called me said, Okay, well that patients, I've ranked as, you know, level two patients not as critical this patient, I've ranked as level one patient and treatments on level one patients always come first.
Erin Smith: Anyway, I walked away at that point. So it wasn't that wasn't like a huge ordeal. So I got, you know, frustrated. Just because I'm not used to being talked back to this is the only tech that will do that to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: What is her name.
Erin Smith: Her name is Kyla, okay, this is kinda and I yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. And when the pilot
Erin Smith: Okay, so then you know the night goes on whatever we move past it. So then the next night comes, and it's a bit busier um but not crazy, crazy busy.
Erin Smith: And we don't have necessarily any sometimes I'll get patients that are really, you know, close to dying that we really have to move fast on and I've just been
Erin Smith: Grateful lately that I've never had that on this shift because I don't think that they could manage it. I don't think they can physically move fast enough to deal with it. And that's just not acceptable to me.
Erin Smith: But anyway, so we did have one cat hoodie and a whole bunch of rubber bands and had a intestinal obstruction.
Erin Smith: So, um, I was trying to get them to you know get the cat into surgery so that we could take these rubber bands out
Erin Smith: YOUNG, HEALTHY cat three years old, you know, otherwise no big deal. No, no issue. So it should be, you know, pretty straightforward thing you know because anesthesia should be easy like the cats young and healthy, you know,
Erin Smith: Issues. Um, and so we have this other technicians. So it's Kyla, and so on. At this time, I'm an EPA has been training for the last three months. And so I let them kind of usually work out amongst themselves who wants to run Anastasia, and I'm
Erin Smith: Basically lied saying that she had run Anastasia before. Um, and so I assumed that was true and it became quite apparent that that was definitely not the case. Um, so
Erin Smith: She, the way we do Anastasia is you know there's pre med so I'll usually give the cat. In this case, I gave it you know what those of fat and all my dad's Liam and
Erin Smith: ketamine and then a little bit of pro befall for whatever else we need to kind of integrate it with but the
Erin Smith: Fall is just tie traded to affect basically there's not like an actual dose where it usually you just give little tiny bits until you can integrate the patient right
Erin Smith: So she gives the cat way too much pro befall because she's not really paying attention to how lacks it's draw is
Erin Smith: She I'm watching her try to intubate this cat. She can't even figure out how to hold the Learn to scope the cat starting to turn purple.
Erin Smith: Color is like, Okay, I know. So I finally told her, like, okay, I'm taking over now. Um, and, you know, got the intubated. The cat both of them got upset with me for taking over because she's supposed to be working. I'm like, not at the expense of my patient, she's
Not
Erin Smith: Yeah. OK. So anyway, it goes on and the surgery is a disaster. Um, and so we get into because we usually intubate on the floor because it's a sterile surgery suite, just like in a human surgery room so then we go into the surgery. Sweet. Um,
Erin Smith: It's pretty obvious that you know ever has not run Anastasia before. And so it would be
Erin Smith: Inappropriate to have her kind of do both the Anastasia, as well as kind of a patient prep stuff. So like scrubbing the patients and getting the instruments ready and all that.
Erin Smith: Um, and so, Kyla says something to her about, okay, why did he go start scrubbing the patient and I actually say to kind
Erin Smith: Of, like, actually, I'm going to have her just focus on Anastasia, because I feel like right now. That's really what she needs to do. She needs to
Erin Smith: You know, make sure this patient is all its vitals are completely normal at every second that this cat is under right now because it's pretty obvious that, you know, this is what she needs to focus
Erin Smith: And Kyla literally says to me was like, just like that. And I'm like, I need you to scrub the patient Kyla
Erin Smith: She just wanted to leave the room.
Erin Smith: And so like it just, it goes downhill, like they don't, they're not paying attention to the way they're putting the cat on the table. The lead the
Erin Smith: Steak ever comes out and asked me something about the Anastasia, and I asked her, I was like, Okay, well, how stable, you know, how's the patient doing, how stable is it
Erin Smith: And she says, good. So then I'm like, Okay, well, what does good meat to you, like, what are the vital, what's the heart rate. What's the blood pressure and she tells me you know some stupid low blood pressure. And I'm like, well then that's not good. We need to do like it was just a mess and
Erin Smith: I like it just was I got to the point where I had to be quiet for a few minutes because I was going to start screaming at them and so rather like then my brain caught up with me.
Erin Smith: And and I thought about what we've been doing
Erin Smith: And I worked on the breathing. Actually, I kind of stopped what I was doing in surgery because one. I didn't want to do a bad job because I was getting worked up like that's not okay.
Erin Smith: So I just kind of took a few minutes stood there, watch the clock actually and just kind of focused on that and did some breathing.
Erin Smith: And then things got better. And then after surgery. I did some of the, um, the, you know, the safe. The suit like the dogs and that kind of stuff. Some imagery stuff, but not in like in the middle of surgery because I was trying to, you know, just kind of calm down and get through them.
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice how you started. Hey, I think this stuff is good for just being a good person.
Gwenevere Abriel: To remember that. Mm hmm. That was your opener to me with that.
Erin Smith: To you.
Erin Smith: Well, it means that rather than getting upset with them and like really kind of because I was on the verge of, you know, not being close to them. It kind of caught my luckily I my brain caught me and I could just stand there and breathe for a few minutes before opening my mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it that you think, meaning this doesn't surprise me that there's a distinction between your recovery and just how to be a good person. Is there a distinction
Gwenevere Abriel: Or is it all maybe kind of all the same thing.
Erin Smith: I think all the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think so, too, so we can just, there's no distinction. For me, this is about
Gwenevere Abriel: What's adaptive for you. What's not what's missing, what are the skills that we need and
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it.
Gwenevere Abriel: As far as I'm concerned, I don't assess you as a good or a bad person, or whatever. Right. I that's really not even my kind of wording, but
Gwenevere Abriel: When you brought that up. It made me think that maybe there is a distinction. But for me, there isn't one. There's hey this is useful, or it's not useful for most people, they found over time that using a substance, help them avoid feeling their feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You're learning how to feel them what to do in the moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: The breath. Nothing better because then right then your brain works better. And you can remember the other kind of cool things. These are. That's a top down intervention, right, top down brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Going this way you remembered. Oh, I can use imaginary stuff. I can bring in my resources, what would they do right now. Who do I need to ask. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it's about. It's about protection my patients aren't being protected. I'm getting activated. Okay. Right. We can get in that funny inner dialogue stuff. None of that's possible until you did what you did, which is brought that prefrontal lobe online because he was hijacked okay
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fantastic. Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's rewind a little bit
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take a look for just a moment at
Gwenevere Abriel: Kyla
Gwenevere Abriel: If we take away any concerns about confronting what very well may be, I don't know, ignorance or
Gwenevere Abriel: A lack of care like meaning.
Gwenevere Abriel: No bedside manner may not care about a patient. These are things I don't know where do you think it is. Do you think in the moment when she decided to focus on. I'm going to do this anyway and intubate and falsify her experience to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think was predominant going on in that
Erin Smith: I think it's ignorance. I think that um
Erin Smith: It's kind of the blind leading the blind right there.
Erin Smith: And they haven't. But I think it's a little bit frustrating is is that they've been. I mean, Kyle has been there for a year and Evers been training, you know, for quite a while now. Um, but they're just not getting there. I think I see them with patience and they seem to care. You know, I
Erin Smith: Think it's
Erin Smith: A lack of caring. I think it's just there. They want to impress people I don't really it and
Erin Smith: So they're afraid to admit that they don't know something
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah and there's no intermediary because there. I mean I maybe I think there's supposed to be. But there's no one in between. Where's the management of their training like I don't like there's nothing in between.
Erin Smith: You know, they're supposed to be. They're supposed to be the head, the lead technician. But that's, I think, yes, where everything goes wrong on this shift is because she usually works day times so they have hardly ever worked with her. So I think that that is absolutely where some of this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah so. And let me just brainstorm a little to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's patient care and you know where that that line is your I can hear in your story you're constantly pulling them in
Gwenevere Abriel: having them do experiential kinesthetic learning. You're having them do it constantly pulling them in and but you
Gwenevere Abriel: aren't gonna let the patient die. You think because they're learning, whoops, that didn't work. You're not going to let that happen. So, so, but they can't see that line. They just can't see it because they don't know what they don't know, they don't know
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I'm wondering is,
Gwenevere Abriel: Can Kyla, right. Can she do a day shift. Can someone even once a month come in some way so that and you may not be the deliver that information, but this combination of two people that neither one of them seem to have right
Gwenevere Abriel: The strong skill set to even model off of the one that knows a little more. The two of them just don't seem to have anything to offer here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Erin Smith: Can now I can completely
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Erin Smith: And that's been wanting to have done it's Kyla has a little bit different personality than other Evers still in training and she definitely can work with some trainers.
Erin Smith: Kyle has been there for longer been there for a year and she gets really defensive when can tell you try to correct her she's, she's a lot harder to teach
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now for a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remember what's underneath that defensiveness.
Erin Smith: Well, I think insecurity.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think so, too, which is fear. I'll be found out. That's something you can relate to, or you're going to find out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Remember that one, they're going to find out that is a scary, scary place when our livelihood is all like
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Around Kyla, how close are you to. Is it time for right up. Is it is it time
Gwenevere Abriel: Like how how how progressive discipline or where are you at with with the next step with her.
Erin Smith: I'm stuck. I'm I mean because I've tried and and all I get is talk back at, um, I mean she
Erin Smith: There's a lot of this that ignorance. Yes. And a lot of insecurity fear at the same time there's a lot of this that I feel like is also just um
Erin Smith: Bad time management and some not necessarily laziness. I mean, she's, she's never on time first shift. She's always at least 15 minutes late, um, she stays hours late though because she can't manage her time appropriately so
Erin Smith: I'm dogs like yesterday morning was one that I just, I was just standing there and all staring at her like I don't understand what's happening right now.
Erin Smith: So we finished the surgery and the surgery. So it was, you know, dirty and it's their job to clean it up and she's standing there for probably a good half an hour, making band aids for patients that aren't in the clinic, like we're closed at this time and
Erin Smith: There's no like there's no reason for this thing in so she's there hours late doing stuff that's just
Gwenevere Abriel: Does she have attention deficit disorder. Do you know
Erin Smith: I have no idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, she's it's starting to sound like she's got some features of it, which includes. It includes, believe it or not. That way of speaking, they end up being really sorry, like I
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't believe I just said that but poor managed time management can't put attention where it's supposed to really not able to sort of postpone the more interesting easy thing which is the band aid making versus cleaning. A lot of the stuff you're describing sounds like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder if that's what's going on. So let's talk about the lead technician, are you really getting this lead technician that is saying you've got it. You've got to take progressive action here with this individual.
Erin Smith: Yeah, I've talked to her a couple times about it and I need to talk to her. This week actually about it this kind of all happened this weekend.
Erin Smith: And I just finished last night with them. So I was gonna take some time and I, because I don't want to write like an angry email just because I'm upset because like you said, Now that you've said that it does.
Erin Smith: You know, because she had the exact same thing with that congestive heart failure patient. She was so focused on the easier patient to deal with that she didn't, you know, it's all comes back to time management so
Erin Smith: So I, yeah, I need to talk to her a little bit more about it and see what we can't figure out, but we've gone through the, you know, try to be nice, that kind of thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so I don't know. Yeah, I'm
Erin Smith: For something a little bit. Right on. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: In there, you know, if it turns out I don't, I don't know how you would extract that
Gwenevere Abriel: It becomes sort of a, you know, you don't want to discriminate against someone present mental illness, kind of thing. So we got to be, you know, tippy toe kind of thing, hopefully. She'll. She'll just school disclose that along the way but
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't matter. Your, your job is just to say right I'm holding this part accountable. This part is is not working. We've tried to just the gentle reminder. And now we're you know why.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't work in this setting, what can you do, you know, and I don't know if she's going to need. I don't know if you guys how big your organization is if you have an EA T might be time for a referral.
Gwenevere Abriel: That doesn't work right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so, you know, how can I don't want to keep talking about this here. If it's not where you want to be spending your energy right now. So what would be useful in our discussion.
Gwenevere Abriel: right at that moment with the one when she does that. How could our work together, be helpful. Do you think
Erin Smith: Well, that's where a lot of our work. I feel like comes in because instead of snapping back at her. I have some skills, where I don't have to do that. Okay. Okay.
Included
Erin Smith: Yeah, sorry. Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Included I know the delay just it's just like constantly we're doing this to each other, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know if this is a mantra.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have a few phrases and I don't know what to call them, whether they're you could call them self talk, you could call it mantra or you could call it a philosophy. You can call it whatever you want to. But if you remember some of these phrases. They can be kind of handy.
Gwenevere Abriel: But they're hard to remember when you're you're trying right we do something. Well, we focus all our attention on the cute right you've got a life threatening situation, you're going to want to be pulling on recall and knowledge.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And now you've got a personality.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't want to have your divided attention. You understand like this patient needs full focus. I'm already divided with
Gwenevere Abriel: Where do I lend training opportunity to just take care of this patient myself. I mean, you're already dividing it you're already doing that. And then on top of this, you have a third thing which is personality, which is very distracting. That doesn't belong in the room.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. I've already got my patient. You're not a psycho therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you need that right
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: If you want to, though in advance.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is, this is what it might be. Hey, Kyla
Gwenevere Abriel: I've noticed right i i am perceived quite often to be, you know, quite serious about my patients and maybe not.
Gwenevere Abriel: Once the patient I've assessed is in a critical nature I stopped joking. I stopped. Oh, I don't know if this is true. I'm making this up, Aaron.
Erin Smith: Knows very true.
Gwenevere Abriel: But this is how, like, it might sound with me right so if Kyle is here. She's sitting on my couch over here. I do like, I don't know if you've noticed that, but
Gwenevere Abriel: I get a bit myopic. I'm very focused on the critical nature because I'm already dividing my attention with also got two people that I'm trying to train. I want to also be a trainer. So my attention is already divided and when I hear things like whoa.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you may be joking or maybe I need to address how you're feeling I'm not able to do a very good job of that and
Gwenevere Abriel: So what you may hear for me is not enough. So, SO I'M SAYING IN ADVANCE. RIGHT. I'M ALREADY acknowledging I'm saying out loud, very clearly what the priorities are and it is not
Gwenevere Abriel: Her feelings, taking care of her emotionally is not a top priority. So I'm sad laying it out. And now comes the predictive what to expect. Kyla, so when if that does go on and you have like a big feeling or a big emotion about it. Would you be comfortable with.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe sharing it after the crisis with our patient is over. Would you be comfortable where we have a debriefing and we always after care what I have my commitment is after each one
Gwenevere Abriel: I will say, All right, time for debrief. What was this like for you, but in the moment I'm it pulls my attention away.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not critical this patient's life is critical and up there also is that you all have a training opportunity.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the, the emotional experience for me too, by the way, because I have them. She has them you have them. We could do what's called a debriefing right after
Gwenevere Abriel: Would that work for you. Kyla, where you know that big feeling, you may have had of my decision about number. My second priority which is the training of the two
Gwenevere Abriel: I made a decision I make them quickly. I'm the one that has the most experience and knowledge around this and
Gwenevere Abriel: If we did, if I said, well, we'll do a debriefing after each one of our patients. How would you feel if we did it like that. And so if something does come up. I might say something like this. Kyla
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's bring that to the to the debriefing after so you so you know what you might hear me say that sounds like a good debrief topic will bring it up then. Does that work for you. Kyla
Gwenevere Abriel: You see, hey, Carla, you're going to hear me saying this in the moment. Now you're going to hear me saying something like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: That sounds like an important debrief thing that we're going to talk about in a little bit. So right now I need you to be over here working this and Kyla over here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just told them what they're going to hear and how to interpret it.
Erin Smith: I like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You do.
Erin Smith: You like it. Okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't say you're an idiot. Doesn't say you're an emotional mess. It doesn't say anything. It just says, I acknowledge
Gwenevere Abriel: What frankly. She just can't do it. She can't see this complexity. She can't. She doesn't know she's just protecting the ego. I don't know what I'm doing. I can't let Aaron know right i mean i'm just going to pop up and be kind of snot nosed Brad.
Erin Smith: And that'll be distracting.
Gwenevere Abriel: Enough, and maybe she won't ask me to do difficult things. Well, that's not gonna fly you need her you actually do need her sounds like so.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's ain't gonna work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so tell me what you like. I'm going to zip it for a while.
Erin Smith: Um, well, I like to that is I can set it up at the beginning of the shift with us so that anytime, then maybe we can do the debrief at the end of the shift.
Erin Smith: And then anytime that she has any sort of kind of reaction that makes me feel like retreating because that's how she makes me feel and she says that, and then I can't do my job effectively.
Erin Smith: I can you know kind of address in the situation and say, by saying we'll address it later. Um, and not just and then actually address that later. And not just kind of let her get away with that every time so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me ask you one more clarification is it. So, back to back. Oftentimes, that there's really no time for even a short debrief.
Erin Smith: Oh no, we can do a short deeper. If you mean after each case or right, it depends. Sometimes it's pretty though, it depends. I don't know that each case would really need a debrief either but but the hard ones, I guess, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, so the will notice that you said just the hard ones. So one of the
Gwenevere Abriel: The upsides of already having in place debriefs will do it one right after lunch will cover any patients in the first part of the day and at the end of the day.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the reasons why having an already set is no one can take it personally. Oh, you're having a debrief because of what we did earlier. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no way anybody can take it personally. It's this is the new routine. This is when we do it. And the nice thing is good things might be talked about. Oh, I felt like
Gwenevere Abriel: I hadn't really remember to do this one piece and it went so smooth and I just feel really good about it like it's an. You see how you are first part was like, well, only after a bad
Gwenevere Abriel: Case, don't forget the good stuff to debrief can also be
Gwenevere Abriel: What we noticed that really worked. What are I felt really strong about maybe that's the way you format it. Let's do a quick debrief. What did you feel strong about where do you think you need to improve. Me too. I noticed
Gwenevere Abriel: I forgot about training you because you can you can route your role modeling and if you want to. You don't have to do any of this. You don't want to
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's a way to wiggle around and kind of loosely because I know you said you'd like to have a kind of comfortable work environment and praise can be a way to to get that done.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is to own what you might have done differently to stretch a little bit and say, yeah, I missed an opportunity to show you this one piece. And next time, I'll see if I can find a place for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see, and then they're get permission to make mistakes. They get permission to be vulnerable to and boss. This intelligent capable woman does that as well. So there's an upside to what you're saying, but then we have the chance a Kyla, if she's looking for a way to get insulted.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh what we're having this debrief. This is all about me. Oh, I'm fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's also say
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: It could fail miserably.
Yeah.
Erin Smith: It's true.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. But if it's already set in place, regardless of whether there were hard cases or not the debrief and we say
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, what's going to be in a deep brief, we'll talk about what we felt strongly about and areas that
Gwenevere Abriel: We we assess ourselves as needing improvement and Hey guys are you okay if I tell you where I thought you guys were
Gwenevere Abriel: Your strength was and where you guys need improvement. Nobody's egos are going to be slam dunk. So that's what we're here for is Lauren. You guys gonna be okay with that. During the debrief.
Gwenevere Abriel: Great, then you've already set out what its gonna look like but telling people in advance when and what's going to be there. Now you don't have to have that trepidation that anxiety about, oh, it's going to be a conflict, you know, you kind of already know you've already set set it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you've got that Kyla don't sound like no fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you know, I would think this lead technician would have some idea of these things that we're talking about. Now, how to make that happen.
Yeah.
Erin Smith: Well, in her and I will, because we do some stuff similar similarly
Erin Smith: And I usually start with kind of like a meeting at the beginning of the shift, but I haven't ever done like a deep brief excerpt after CPR I debrief after every CPR case because you know that
Erin Smith: Those can be hard, but, um, but I should just I should do it more regularly and it doesn't just have to be CPR cases.
Gwenevere Abriel: And even if this is a ruse.
Gwenevere Abriel: For you to just address this one woman right you get to practice.
Gwenevere Abriel: You get to practice all this stuff that you and I are working on.
Gwenevere Abriel: She gets an opportunity for accountability and really find out the things that she needs to work on. Without that, you know, and, and you're not as you put it, not letting her get away with it, which really it's reinforcing the behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't mean to
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't address, you know, inappropriate stuff right away. We are reinforcing it. I mean, I hate to say it but
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't know. I mean, maybe this maybe this lead technician. Maybe it turns out, Kyla needs to go to day shift every once in a while or something. I mean, if that's a possibility.
Erin Smith: Yeah, I think that that would be a good idea that or we have the two clinics one in Santa Fe. When Albuquerque.
Erin Smith: And then some of the texts in Albuquerque are a bit better train. So we'll send some of the Santa Fe Texas down there for training. Okay. And so I would love center down there to do some some training.
Erin Smith: Logistics or just difficult
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now does that is that the piece that's difficult for you. In other words, asking someone that they need more training.
Erin Smith: Well, and I'm happy to tell her she needs more training. It's just, I don't know that she would be willing to drive down to Albuquerque, especially since at this point that part of the difficulty is she's been here a year, and she thinks she's really good at her job.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is a big problem. How has that happened. I don't understand. Now we're talking about it. We said, let it get away with somebody's been enabling that sort of snotty nosed kid behavior for a while, how
Did that happen.
Erin Smith: I don't know, I, I've been avoiding the chef's um, the last time I worked with worked them. I had big issues and brought it up to the management and the lead technicians and everything and it kind of got ignored and yeah
Okay.
Erin Smith: And she continually snaps back and nobody wants to
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, and if she wins you know she wins. Yeah, I'm telling you the snotty people they get away with it because nobody wants to confront them. They do win.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, but the little tricks and and we've got just a couple minutes. Remember I was talking to you about little mantras and things like that that can be useful. And I know it's right at the end. And I want to pick this up and talk about it more
Gwenevere Abriel: Try this one on and we'll talk more later because I'm throwing at you a really big one.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it sounds like this. I choose curiosity over being right and what that would look like, what is the execution of that was not knows, you know, drama, drama, drama or snappy little comebacks
Gwenevere Abriel: Here and you already are ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, she's behaving unprofessionally we're not joking. We're not friends. We don't have a drink. Later doesn't belong here. So you're already. Correct. It's unprofessional. So you don't need to defend it. You don't need to explain it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what you can do. That's a little different is
Gwenevere Abriel: Not interpret the world.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which is what we do because we're smart socialized people you interpreted as defensive and insecure.
Gwenevere Abriel: What curiosity does. And again, we'll talk more about this is really complicated, but you can use it in lots of different places. If you actually turn in a sense toward it and you say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Your whole attitude is of curiosity. We're not defending against that nasty not niceness returning, in a sense, toward it with
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me more about the
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me more. Which normally we would get pissed off by it insulted by it disgusted by whatever it is right that comes up for you, but instead we turn toward it lean into it and try and seek to understand it more
Gwenevere Abriel: She's going to need to sort of not defend not at our tone has to be, it has to be genuine. And we're going to get. We'll talk more about that next time because it does take a genuine
Gwenevere Abriel: Actually to have to find the point 000 piece of interest in what she's going through and sometimes you have to go even further and the decimal fraction of interest, but
Gwenevere Abriel: It even that little bit will be enough to change your tone, so that you can say, whoa, something's going on, what's going on. Oh, you know what, actually, I don't have time for that. I do want to know, actually this is be a good thing for us to talk about in the debrief. You see it.
Erin Smith: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I acknowledged it, but because look, you have these two things unless I'm wrong, it's probably
Gwenevere Abriel: Patient care and I know I need to focus on training, but it's still secondary to patient care. But her her It's just. You can acknowledge it and then channel it into the debrief. That's probably coming after well
Gwenevere Abriel: That might be something I want to know more about what's going on with that with your what
Gwenevere Abriel: You think that'd be a good thing for us to kind of bring up again at at one o'clock after lunch. Let's do that because something something's happening for you. So that's it. You know, so we'll talk more about that next time. Let's schedule.
Gwenevere Abriel: Our next
Meeting.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what, let me ask you, are you checking in to the virtual clinic before you come here. Are you checking in.
Erin Smith: With them, I do sometimes, but I didn't. This time, I was a little late. Do I, do you want me to every time I can
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go in and even after this one just drop out of here and go say hi to them and say, Hey, I just met with one of your because I don't know what all they do. But they've been smacking lie rest and saying, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're like, okay, okay.
Sometimes I forget.
Erin Smith: I like to
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah, I like to catch up and see what's going on and get to work right away. Um, but I'm working today on reminding people and you're one of the ones that have on my mind. I don't remember. I don't remember. So if you can remember. And I'll try and remind us
Erin Smith: And that's it. Yeah, I can do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright our next appointment. You tell me. But I was assuming 10 O'clock was was good. So I kind of protected TUESDAY, MARCH 17 at 10
Erin Smith: This should work.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that we were okay. And obviously if the wind is too windy. Well, then you'll let me know.
Alright, I will see you then.
Erin Smith: Okay. Sounds good. Thank you for everything.
Erin Smith: You're welcome. Bye bye.
Gwenevere Abriel: You dare
Gwenevere Abriel: Anybody they're talking to myself.
Yeah.
See you just texted. Somebody texted me what's going on here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I've got your name, I see no face you are
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes.
Matthew Montano: Beautiful face. I can't
Gwenevere Abriel: See your face.
Matthew Montano: Yes, beautiful face to face. Yes, he
Gwenevere Abriel: Is very photogenic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so am I, meeting with you.
Matthew Montano: Today I'm meeting with you alone. I did. We did have an opportunity and I asked him if you wanted to meet today but I more wanted to go over some ground things we want, I want to talk about and stuff.
Matthew Montano: And I know
Gwenevere Abriel: some ground rules.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, and I know I I don't make the rules in a counseling session. Right. You're gonna you're gonna like kind of mediate us no
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to start from scratch. Take a deep breath, Matt.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have an hour. It's all yours. If you come away today with what you want, what are the things you want to come away with today.
Matthew Montano: Today I want to
Matthew Montano: Okay, so we're, we, we have decided to we're not dating, but we've just he's not gonna live with me anytime soon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Well, notice how you're giving me a story just be real careful if you can identify what you want to come away with today. I know it's hard to do.
Matthew Montano: Yeah okay, I want to
Matthew Montano: See how this i'm i'm couples therapy is going to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you want to learn from me about what the expectations are. And the norms of what it might look like when you all three of us are together.
Matthew Montano: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can right now. Yeah.
Matthew Montano: Cuz I know he's gonna be he's really, he's really charming. He's gonna he's gonna he's gonna tell you, Oh, you're so pretty and stuff. And he's gonna play. He's gonna do this thing. And, you know, and
Matthew Montano: No. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So i don't i don't know i don't get snowed
Gwenevere Abriel: You notice how I interrupt you quite a bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. So I do that with a lot of people. Now, the only difference is is I do want your, your friend Ryan to feel comfortable. So a lot of what we do is we give a compliment. We ingratiate others to feel safe for ourselves. This is this person I've complimented this this person.
Gwenevere Abriel: He hasn't
Matthew Montano: He sucks up compliments. He loves compliments.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, so let's so number one. I've been warned. They'll be this phase of
Gwenevere Abriel: Connecting with me helping me feel good about myself, even though it's unsolicited and
Gwenevere Abriel: He might like a compliment to him. Oh, you, you want a handsome guy you are and okay
Matthew Montano: Yeah, they'll suck that soak that in you know we're different in those ways like someone could tell me that, and I'll be like, Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm unlikely to actually do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's here. Okay, that's fair. But you're you're educating me, man. Maybe later on you'll give me a good argument for why I need to do that in order for him to feel safe. But let's put a pin in that for now. I don't tend to have to do
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything that's just in genuine. Okay, so notice I don't tell you, I might joke. Your, your face, but I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Help you. I don't help other I don't really talk about what people look like so much as what they eat, and their exercise and I'm not really into sort of what people look like. So let's put a pin in that for just a second. Let's come back to expectation for a moment. Okay.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, yeah. So it's not about what what looks like it just he soaks he soaks in like if you say, He's right, he's really going to take that in more than he's going to take in. When you might say, I'm right. So I just want you to know that. So let's okay
Gwenevere Abriel: That's pretty common for people. We will enjoy being rights, but let's let's put put that over here for just a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, go back to why do you not the story. Try and find one little sentence if you can find it. What's the outcome you want from meeting with Ryan and me. What do you want
Matthew Montano: This is our final go, this is, this is, um, cuz we're still not we're still we we met up to
Gwenevere Abriel: You give me a straight. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I already agree with your, your reasoning. Do I do
Gwenevere Abriel: Now go
Gwenevere Abriel: Go to the end of it and just say, I want out of meeting with you when a beer. The following I want increase this or decrease that what's the core of what
Matthew Montano: What I've told him I want more. I want communication and I've told him. This is our last and you've counseling can help us than this. There's nothing that can
She's
Matthew Montano: Well,
Matthew Montano: Well, cuz we've he's already. He's already. Um, I mean, he came over and he was drinking and we had sex and that was the first night he called me out of the blue, and
Matthew Montano: And then he was just, he was just bringing up a bunch of the past. And I was like, if we work if we're really going to work this out. We got to start over fresh. We got to forget the past move forward.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, number one, I'm not going to tell you something. But I gotta tell you some you can't start over fresh and hold everything against them and give them an ultimatum. Those are contradictory and
Matthew Montano: Yeah, what
Matthew Montano: What do you mean like I'm because I'm holding stuff against him.
Gwenevere Abriel: You either get it together, we work out this communication you you have a lot stored up against him. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, not fresh and let's keep talking. Okay, let's keep talking. What, what I heard you say is more communication. I think you two are exchanging words.
Gwenevere Abriel: And physical communication you are exchanging communication all the time you're having sex with him is drinking
Gwenevere Abriel: You're having sex with him after he was drinking. You're letting him in the house, all of it as a communication. Anytime you guys are non verbal or verbal, there is a message sent and received now.
Gwenevere Abriel: You say more communication, you need to be more specific.
Matthew Montano: And I have I. Okay. So, last night I asked him, Are you going to be a little. Are you gonna come over tonight because I have an appointment in it. I have to work because I worked at 545 this morning.
Matthew Montano: And he said, no, because my mom, my parents will start to notice because his parents. So a lot of our ugly texts together and they're, they're kind of angry at me right now.
Matthew Montano: So, um, he showed it to them. So he said his excuse was they're going to notice something. The next day I find out he went out with this friend of girlfriend of his, and he was drinking and doing cocaine. So five o'clock in the morning, so
Gwenevere Abriel: So what it is like, why do you care.
Matthew Montano: I care because I worry about him.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's not your job to worry about me. You guys aren't dating.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what I've got. I cannot give you a list of people I was really worried about
Matthew Montano: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a lot of people to worry about why why him.
Matthew Montano: Because because I see the good in him. I see this
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, these people are really good. They're really good people. You can worry about them. I'll give you a list of people to worry about. They've got kids or you should really worry about
Gwenevere Abriel: And they're doing cocaine and they got kids and they're drinking. I'll give you a list of people to worry about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's not it. Why are you worrying about him.
Matthew Montano: Cuz I love him. Yeah, that's a little closer to what the deal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, and
Gwenevere Abriel: I want him to stop that behavior because maybe I'll let him back in my life.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now we're getting somewhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you say I want more communication or you have you whittled it down to communication.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you just said ultimatum is communication or we're not going to make it. Now I heard lies cocaine alcohol.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you really know what you're sticking points are that you will not tolerate in this relationship just list them. I know you're gonna want to give me a story about why the list. I'd rather hear the list at the end. We've only got a finite amount of time.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you not willing to budge on let me hear him.
Matthew Montano: I'm not not willing to budge on lies. I want complete openness say he were to do the worst thing cheat on me, he can tell me that maybe I can
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep going.
Okay.
Matthew Montano: The drug use it. Maybe he can party. We can party on the weekends do his drug, you know, we weekend. He can go with his friends and drink. He has girlfriends. He hangs out with all girls and do his thing on the weekend. Maybe I'll go with him and have a beer. Um, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Ryan, is it is okay to drink as much as he wants and to do as much cocaine, as he wants, as long as it is after midnight on Friday.
Matthew Montano: It's he he needs to. Yeah, he definitely needs to work on his drug the drug, the drugs are an issue. He needs to
Gwenevere Abriel: Know what this is hard for you to find what are you willing to compromise.
Matthew Montano: It's because he's not willing to compromise on that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I asked you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you, unwilling to compromise on. There's a reason he isn't living with you right now. You ran across at least one
Matthew Montano: Okay, he
Matthew Montano: Had no respect for me in my home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, period. Hold that hold it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let It Be quiet. Now we're going to see if it's really true, hang on to that now the absence of respect, there was evidence that he was not respecting so now what are you not willing to compromise, I will have a relationship with you, Ryan.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I need to see see here feel the following. How will you know you're being respected, slow down. I know you're going to want to jump in there with a story. No, no. The more you know it and can name it the easier it's going to be for another human being to hear it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Respect looks like what it's different for me than it is for you and for other people respect looks like what he will do what
Matthew Montano: Well that's good to turn into a story, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Now it's not it's going to be respect is you say please and thank you. I'll give you more you pick up your clothes when you take them off. Respect will look like you wash your own clothes you clean your own
Gwenevere Abriel: You prepare for meals, the easier it is to identify things that are literally tangible and measurable, the easier it is to communicate to someone else, if they actually understand you say respect. He's gonna say I do respect you and we'll get nowhere.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, exactly. That's where we get me and him.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can see why it takes. Look how many times I've had to interrupt.
Matthew Montano: Mm hmm. Okay, so, respect, meaning
Matthew Montano: I buy the food in the house. So he needs to respect that he eats most of the
Huh.
Matthew Montano: Uh,
Gwenevere Abriel: He, he said, hey, I'll eat your food for you send it my way. I'll show you respects it I'll eat your food, you go buy the food Australia, respect, I'll eat it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Matthew Montano: Okay, well done. Picking badges that you said about laundry.
Matthew Montano: He doesn't do his own laundry. He throws his clothes on the floor.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not to do, what do you want him to do. You're almost there. What do you want them to do what shows you respect.
Gwenevere Abriel: When he what, here's what I want you to do. Ryan, I would like to sue this, what is it,
Matthew Montano: It's just there's so many little things.
That
Matthew Montano: I'm
Matthew Montano: When you know I have a doctor's appointment in the morning or when you know i work early the next morning, or, you know, I have a big thing coming up at work respect me and give me either space or give me or give me support.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so space. It's a final frontier. You mean a little DVD. I'm a hand you space. I'm not standing on top of your lap. I'm giving you space that's still not tangible. I know you're annoyed with me right now. But so support, but he
Matthew Montano: Um, he is he, he's clean
And
Matthew Montano: Clean
Gwenevere Abriel: Matt, it will be a waste of your time.
Matthew Montano: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll be a waste of your time to meet with him.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll be a waste your time.
Gwenevere Abriel: With a professional
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not communicate
Gwenevere Abriel: What you want, what a great invitation. I wish somebody would ask me what I want. I listed out man, I'd be like,
Gwenevere Abriel: And then they're gonna say what don't you want. I'll be like in that list is even longer.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you
Gwenevere Abriel: Sit with it for a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Space.
Gwenevere Abriel: Support. Those are vague and ambiguous.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to sit and ask someone to give you something, then you need to know what it is.
Matthew Montano: Oh Booger. Right. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to just put a pin as for a little bit, let me, let me just see it might be. I truly do believe it will be a huge waste of your time in here with me and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll get to why in a second. Let's put it over here. Let's just
Matthew Montano: Get my be that he's childish. That's the 111 thing that
Gwenevere Abriel: That kind of space support and childish vague. Again, I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm childish. Look at me, I'm having a little tantrum right now. Why don't try
Matthew Montano: So can you give me example of like what what
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay. But you'll listen
Matthew Montano: Yes, I'll listen
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, here's how we go. I'm glad you asked. I'm not direct questions.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, Ryan, I don't want to be big. I want to tell you how I measure respect and what I'm looking for is
Gwenevere Abriel: When you notice the door is closed and the lights are out and it's it's 10 o'clock at night that you not
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you leave the door closed. You don't come in and rush around and and get close and go in the bathroom and clunk around and be cute. Instead, what you do is you
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep the volume, low out in the other room, you know, well I can show you what I mean by low. I'm a light sleeper your real quiet with the dishes. Maybe you don't even go in there, cleaning the dishes. I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: In other words, let me sleep. You'll be letting me sleep. You'll be that would feel respectful where you're not coming in the room and kind of whoops, you know, so you're not coming in their own and you're being quiet, you'll be being quiet in the other room.
Gwenevere Abriel: You will know what to do. So now if I go in the room, would I be respectful. No, I wouldn't. Would I now knows what respect looks like support would look like this, Ryan.
Gwenevere Abriel: really come to terms with defining what support would feel like to me support number one around my recovery would be i don't i don't want to smell alcohol on your breath, Monday through Friday support would feel like I don't want to either hear stories or see cocaine or math, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't I get. Wait, this is my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I get triggered by it. So support would feel like that. Those are tangible. You asked me to give you an example. It means I know what feels like support to meet
Gwenevere Abriel: You know it when it's not happening, but do you know how to recognize it when it's happening.
Matthew Montano: I see what you mean. Now, by me being vague, um,
Matthew Montano: I was being vague. I wasn't going into detail.
Matthew Montano: About those things right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's all good. I'm glad you recognize that. Now I want to tell you. You know how you came in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You said I want to see how this couples things going to go, so I don't even. We haven't even decided, I think it will. Right now I think it'll be a waste of your time. But I want to keep talking about because I want you to come away with what a typical company.
Couple.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me finish.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now I do in here with me, but I want to still meet your goal, which is I want to know what it would look like in here. So one of the reasons why.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so adamant about what I'm doing right in this moment is because I'm not going to be your couples therapist be always be your therapist.
Matthew Montano: Yes that's and that's what I was gonna ask you to all your
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so I'll always be biased, no matter what I can will be able to get past that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, because I'm smart enough to know that about being a professional. But I want to tell you what I have done for people for people that have no other resource.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm kind of the least scary person I can be very sarcastic very playful and here it is telemedicine and maybe there's some interest in, it's kind of kind of cheeky and they want to check it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I can do is we don't talk about communication. We don't talk about love. We don't talk about content. What I do in here is I talk about a skill.
Gwenevere Abriel: Talk about I feel I teach mirroring and maybe if there's not. It's very rare. You can get the validation in one session but I
Gwenevere Abriel: Teach those skills, which means you can talk about the door knob and it doesn't matter, you're still going to learn the skill. Now I think clinically as a marriage and family therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: You guys if you really are serious. Let's say you do decide to come in here and you want to meet with me and you try on this skill building
Gwenevere Abriel: And it gets it somewhere you learn something about Ryan about how he feels and you're like, wow.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then he he says something and you you're like well and and same vice versa. And then you both say to each other, you know what, we have a real chance
Gwenevere Abriel: If we go see a couples therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: This could be your first exposure to it and then you go see one that's unbiased that will see both neutrally I will be biased. There's no doubt. No, you won't see it. He'll never see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I'm very careful, but it's there. And I don't think in my model of training. The only thing I do is I'll teach the skill, but ultimately my client is going to be you. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Now what I foresee just in this little bit. I want to
Matthew Montano: Start
Matthew Montano: Or dry and that's why. Thank you so much. I've been up so early. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Dry mouth dry eyes. Yeah.
Matthew Montano: My contacts have super dry because I've had him on since four
Matthew Montano: o'clock this morning, good grief.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Now let's back up to this other part, which is why I was saying, I think it might be a waste your time and
Matthew Montano: Oh yeah what why
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you're unclear. I don't think you've really come down to what your, your, I won't budge from your sticking points are because you haven't been able to name them even here.
Matthew Montano: I have been now that we've been talking. I have been putting boundaries, like when he's, he's still arguing the same way we used to, and then I will stop and say, nope, I'm that's, that's where I draw my boundaries. Okay, or
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's you, you can do that with the Ryan, you can do with a Brian, you can do it, you can do it, you can do it with with a mom with a you can do with anybody. Yeah, that's for your healing. Now whether a Ryan respects the boundaries is a whole other matter.
Matthew Montano: That's up yeah that's yeah and I still don't know you know
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to divide communication, just for simplicity sake right down the middle content.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's INFIDELITY. THAT'S cocaine that's waking me up. That's all content that's do the dishes help make dinner on Sunday always order Indian on Sunday night. That's all content.
Matthew Montano: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Over here is process. That's how we say it.
Matthew Montano: How we say how we say it instead of saying it like
Gwenevere Abriel: Why didn't get it, you know.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, f and f and f and f and nerves, you know, some, you know, all kinds of bullshit.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it I'm able to know if you guys could do it or not, but I could teach
Gwenevere Abriel: How that's the right side. Y'all can talk about whatever you want. Once you have the skills you can talk about sex family relationship insurance food dirty floor what tell. I don't care. Right. You care.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you'll have the skills to talk about it now that I can teach but it means pinning things like
Gwenevere Abriel: Making it all about drama and trying to hijack the whole conversation by getting distracted with content so
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know if you guys can do it. I don't know.
Matthew Montano: I know I can do it because the lot of the things you taught me. I've been putting you know putting into my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you can do and I feel statement. Let's see what stuck. I did. I'm being I'm being playful. I truly it's okay if you don't remember they're actually farther than most people.
Gwenevere Abriel: You and I feel statement and I will marry you.
Matthew Montano: Now,
Matthew Montano: How am I feeling right now. I feel like good
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, good. Um, let's get an actual emotion.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel good when when you. That would be the proper structure.
Matthew Montano: Okay, I felt good when when you
Gwenevere Abriel: And pick an actual emotion because good emotion.
Matthew Montano: When you
Matthew Montano: Listen, when he
Matthew Montano: When you tell me to a true fully when you tell me the truth. Okay, let me give it you. When you give it to me real
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so okay we got the because but when you're when you're actually talking with someone
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to go to an actual emotion. I know. Good. Seems like it is one, but it's not. So you want to say happy. I feel proud sad, angry, afraid disgusted jealous. See if you can actually identify an emotion, slow down.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can find it. When I tell you the truth when I keep it real. When I come at you, the way I do see how you feel not put it in a whole sense I feel this when you do this all the way through.
Matthew Montano: I feel challenged whenever you tell me the truth. And it makes me excited
Gwenevere Abriel: So put the excited up after the field word
Matthew Montano: After the film word was challenged to fill word no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Drop challenged
Matthew Montano: Dropping I feel, I feel excited. Whenever you challenge me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's it. Beautiful. And I'm gonna I'm gonna marry you, and I'm going to say. So Matt, let me see if I understand.
Matthew Montano: What we're being on it now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me see if I understand you, you feel excited when I when I am coming at you with my truth telling. Did I get that right.
Matthew Montano: Yes. When you, when yeah because I wanted to get as much as this as I can. I want to, I want to change.
Gwenevere Abriel: And another part of that is that you feel excited. Also because you want to get as much out of this as you possibly can. You want to change. Did I get that right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, more
Matthew Montano: Is there more
Matthew Montano: I feel
Matthew Montano: I feel sad when we have to go into my past hurts and traumas with family and other stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see if I heard you correctly, you feel sad when I invite you, or you feel you have to go into traumas and hurt feelings.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, I feel like I
Matthew Montano: Feel like you invite me. I feel like it. I like those times because I'm not a crier. And I feel so good after those sessions.
Gwenevere Abriel: And also, if I'm hearing correctly, you like it you you like that you have an opportunity, maybe to do that. CRYING
Matthew Montano: Over to. It's like, it's like a relief because I paint everything out and inside and I don't ever cry, you know, and, you know, it's very unhealthy to just paint all that stuff up inside
Gwenevere Abriel: So you feel relief when I invite opportunities for you to not pent up not hold back those thoughts and feelings and you get to cry. Did I get that right, or this I'm missing a piece
Matthew Montano: So, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did I miss a piece of that. Did I miss anything. Did I get it right.
Matthew Montano: It said it said that, say it again. The what you said.
Gwenevere Abriel: You feel relief when you're given the opportunity I invite an opportunity for you to kind of visit some of those fields that were before.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, you got there, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there more
Matthew Montano: Is there more about our sessions and
Gwenevere Abriel: Just teaching. So, is there more
Matthew Montano: A I feel
Matthew Montano: I feel
Matthew Montano: I feel happy that I'm moving forward in my recovery.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let me see if I've heard that part correctly, you also feel happy that you're moving forward in your recovery to get that right.
Matthew Montano: Mm hmm. Is there more
Matthew Montano: I feel
Matthew Montano: I feel happy that I have a counselor who makes me feel like she actually cares
Gwenevere Abriel: And you feel happy that you have a counselor that makes you feel like you're cared for.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I care.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, you're, you're, you're really good you. I've been to many counselors and you're really good
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're happy because you've run across one that's really good.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, that that I've been able to click with most of the time it's just like somebody
Matthew Montano: You feel. And then how do you feel you know
Matthew Montano: That kind of stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And so right you have this sense of happy to have found one that you click with that isn't just sitting here sort of wrote and and really sort of how are you feeling and not the sense of care that you have with me.
Matthew Montano: Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And especially with the last Suboxone doctor, I was with there was no counseling involved, you would go in with the doctor.
Matthew Montano: And he was, I guess. I don't know if he was certified as the counselor, but that was the county and you would get you a talk to the doctor prescribe the medication. So I don't know if you have both degrees but
Matthew Montano: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Up until right that last part about the Suboxone doctrine. Did you notice a particular way. I was talking to you.
Matthew Montano: You were, you were listening to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's all I was doing. Wasn't it
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And then I would say the next saying exactly the same, which is. Did I get that right, and then I would say, is there more and then I would open it with, let me see if I understand you. I did three things I did it every single time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I said let me see if I get this right. I would do my best to try to capture it that I'd say, Did I get that right, and then I would say, is there more and you felt heard. Did you not
Matthew Montano: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a skill.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, yeah. And Brian does Ryan does say it'll he says a lot. I don't listen to him.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see how you do. Let's flip it around. Let's see how you do. Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I gotta make stuff up.
Matthew Montano: Like you're like you're him is
Working
Matthew Montano: I, I know that like he's
Matthew Montano: Wrong. A lot of the times, he and he is wrong in some of the things he's doing and
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that right there. I already know. You got it, got it. He got enough
Matthew Montano: Okay. Yeah. Cuz if you want to. Yeah, cuz a relationship is, you know, you gotta be. You gotta
Gwenevere Abriel: Listening is not
Gwenevere Abriel: He's wrong he's wrong, he's wrong, he's wrong, he's wrong. I wasn't sitting here thinking you're wrong. It wasn't sitting here doing that I was busy listening for feeling words, you're going to need. Let's see how you do.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm giving you a cheat sheet right now and I see no Notepad in front of you. I wonder how you'll do this is I make it look really easy. I'm a, I'm a professional
Matthew Montano: Yeah yeah
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Listen for my feeling word
Matthew Montano: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try and keep what I'm saying nice and short. If I carry on and on and on. You might want to interrupt me and say, I want to make sure I heard you let me let me mirror what you're saying.
Matthew Montano: Let me show you. You want me to practice doing it correctly.
Matthew Montano: Uh huh. Okay, not the way I would not the way I've done it.
Matthew Montano: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll see how you do. Because you know you're saying you've been practicing it with people. Right. Look, I'm testing you were doing a test.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. So number one, I'll give you some praise You didn't put in the word like or that you did fantastic
Matthew Montano: Oh, I used to do that a lot.
Matthew Montano: Everybody does.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, you did great. I noticed that
Gwenevere Abriel: And you let it in, you would feel heard and then you'd sit here new thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now there is more and then you would share it. And you would say it a nice consort chunks of information because I can't hold a lot in my working memory that was really great for me as a as a listener and thank you for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll try to do the same thing for you. Here we go. Let me get one in my head.
Gwenevere Abriel: You never look at me when you're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm talking about like moving out of state or something really important and you don't even look at me. You don't care.
Matthew Montano: How does that make you feel so
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Having said that feeling. Where do you notice right
Gwenevere Abriel: I yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's how most people are they don't put it in that structure. Alright, so I'll do it the better way. I'll say I feel unloved when I'm talking to you about something that's important to me and you're playing on your phone.
Matthew Montano: Is
Matthew Montano: Is there anything I can do to fix that.
Gwenevere Abriel: fail, you fail fast.
Gwenevere Abriel: In my little role play. Did I say, Oh, how can I fix that.
Gwenevere Abriel: What am I do you don't have your notes do
Matthew Montano: Huh. Well, I know I didn't write some notes. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see if I understand you correctly, write that down.
Matthew Montano: Okay, yeah, let me hold on, let me get to the page so
Matthew Montano: That narcissism Narcissus thing we did. I was have a lot of narcissistic tendencies, but okay so let's let me write this out the whole thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sweetheart, let me see if I heard you correctly, write that down. Let me see if I heard you correctly, or let me see if I got that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see if I hurt you. That's an opener. That's notice that's exactly what I was doing five minutes ago I did it every time. And then I would mirror back the feeling. And the reason and then I would say ready. Hmm. Did I get that right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Matthew Montano: So, and then he says his comment. He says how he feels and then I would say, Did I get that right.
Next,
Matthew Montano: I'm going to help
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to help you just write these three things down. So you've got, let me see if I got that right. That's your first sentence, the second sentence is. Did I get that right.
Gwenevere Abriel: The third sentences. Is there more
Those are the three things you should have written in front of you right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, this is where it fits in those are puzzle pieces but it's only one side of it. So where that starts is
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the part of the mirror. So the top of those three sentences put mirroring mirroring best
Matthew Montano: I got it like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: At the top put mirroring
Matthew Montano: Mirroring okay
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So down underneath that you can draw a line and on the bottom. You could put I feel statement.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you'd put I feel and you put the word emotion. It has to be an emotion. Good. I know you everybody would like it to be. But it's not precise enough, it won't get you the mileage that an actual emotion word well well
Matthew Montano: Okay, I feel emotion. It has to be some sort of emotion. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: When such and such happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: When such and such happened and then you put in parentheses somewhere in there right underneath it, keep it really brief.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't remember what people said we can't
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not, I'm not a
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't have a photographic memory. I can't remember.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you tell your long stories. I can't keep up with it. I can't do it. I do a shift.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm good. So one who's already in their own emotional space I getting all worked up and they're coming up with their argument they listen to you at all.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep it short and sweet.
Matthew Montano: Sure. On the I feel emotion. One such and such happens you bet short
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to do it again. And I'm going to walk you through it a little slower. So I'm throwing you in kind of in the middle, in some ways, so my do it again. I'm going to be the I feel it's the second half of this page you're going to do that first sentence you ready
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel angry when you expecting me make dinner every night.
Gwenevere Abriel: Read the first sentence.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, I feel angry when you
Matthew Montano: Know you make what okay
Gwenevere Abriel: It's okay. We just did this whole thing a little out of order. Right. And the reason why we're doing it.
Matthew Montano: Was yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: I was testing you to see if you actually knew because you were saying, Oh, I'm, I'm doing it. I'm doing it already. I don't think so.
Matthew Montano: Yeah yeah
Matthew Montano: Cuz we didn't do that. I feel steam. And so, like, what would I say after I feel emotion with such and such happens. Oh, okay, what I say.
Gwenevere Abriel: Flip it around. Do you remember how good it felt to be heard that.
Matthew Montano: Okay, let what I say.
Matthew Montano: Okay, okay, baby. Let me see if I if I heard you. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Now, keep going. Now mirror back what I said you can write that in there now mirror back the feeling word of what they said.
Gwenevere Abriel: He thought for sentence tuck it in there, you left a little space then reflect back the emotion and exactly as best you can, what they said.
Gwenevere Abriel: It would be one of your. Let me see, right, your version, babe. Let me see if I got that right. You're you feel angry when I kind of expect you to make dinner for me every night. Did I get that right. Okay.
Matthew Montano: All right. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I answer you and
Matthew Montano: Is there far
Matthew Montano: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: I know I'm gonna start from scratch. I want to see if you really got it. This is I make it seem easy. This is harder than people think.
Matthew Montano: Yes, it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Feel so pissed off at you when you come home and you're all fun fun fun and I'm freaking exhausted from a long day and you don't seem to give a shit.
Matthew Montano: You said exhausted as the emotion word right
I said,
Matthew Montano: Okay, it's focused on
Matthew Montano: Okay, but let me see if I heard, I heard you correct you. You feel pissed off because I'm coming in and kind of urine, a different mood than me and I've been at work all day. I
Matthew Montano: Have
Gwenevere Abriel: I've been working on.
Matthew Montano: Oh yeah, and you've been at work all day. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're coming in all fun and ready to play right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, then look at your paper. What do you say next. Did I
Matthew Montano: Did I get that right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Oh, and I feel angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you repeat it. So let me okay and you feel angry when I come home and then you add that, and you feel angry when I come home already to play and I'm so cute. Look at me attention seeking and you're
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're completely exhausted. Yes.
Matthew Montano: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take that extra bit and you add it to their already stated reason they added another emotion word. It's another emotion, because how often do we have complex emotions. Very often, but our reason hasn't changed has come. You're coming in, ready to play your shift and I'm poked
Matthew Montano: Yeah. Okay, so then he said, and then he used you tell me you are angry now. So I would say Bay. So you feel pissed off and angry because I'm coming in, you know, ready the party ready that ready to have a good time. Am I getting that right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and I'm tired. I'm exhausted and I feel disrespected
Matthew Montano: Is there more
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I feel disrespected
See
Matthew Montano: Where were they were they go after that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So all I did was add another emotion. So this is what it would look like. Let's flip it around.
Gwenevere Abriel: But just. Notice how when
Gwenevere Abriel: When we first started this whole thing. You're just consuming what I was doing. You didn't even see that all I was doing was this structure at you and you felt great. You felt heard, and you did.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would say, is there more and you just kept coming at it. Come in and government, government, but I was using structure. That's all I did. I didn't know
Matthew Montano: Okay, so like if if he said like you, like you said, like you said, You're pissed off, and then you're angry, I would just keep using this structure over and over and
Gwenevere Abriel: Over and over, you don't move.
Matthew Montano: You don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Do not problem solve, you do not ask for behavior change. You do not defend your position and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not saying this is the panacea of all relationships. I'm saying this is a skill. If you don't really learn it and you move on to something else is too soon, like really sit with it.
Matthew Montano: Yeah yeah
Matthew Montano: It's a difficult thing to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: I, I know how to do it because I'm like the reason hasn't changed coming in, playful b&q try to get my attention and I'm pooped. But my feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of resentment, anger and almost feel a little guilty, like I should be partying with you. I don't get to play with you. Very often it's complicated. I might as you continue to ask me, Is there more I'd be like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, yeah, actually I'm jealous and then come in and then I keep coming. But the reason may not have changed. And so I might keep playing with it and that I get to be flexible because I'm this is what I do. I can hold that I'm good at it. I can say
Matthew Montano: So let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get this right, kind of a combination for you have pissed off angry jealous and guilty when I come home. Oh, cute and ready to plan. I'm a little buzz from a bear, and you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhausted, and a little irritated and kind of frustrated with the messy floor. I can do that because I get this structure really well I can play with it. You're just learning it sees that are like
Matthew Montano: Yeah, I'm really, I'm starting to understand it. Now you just keep the infrastructure, you just go on with
Gwenevere Abriel: As a mirror because what does a mirror. Do it says your beliefs, your hair too much those glasses, you know, they're blue, they should be black. They IT DOESN'T LIE TO
Matthew Montano: You and they're blue. The blue. The black looks good.
Gwenevere Abriel: It just says what is
Matthew Montano: Yeah, it's a reflection. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the truth, it doesn't interpret it doesn't say, well, let me help you with those highlights and you need a trim. Let me trim your hair, it doesn't offer a solution. It doesn't try
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, just
Matthew Montano: So I looked at him as a mirror, instead of trying to fix it. Like I say, like, we need to do this. And we do this and you need to do this. And that's it. And we go to counseling and said, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so right so slow down. Let's have some quiet for just a second. What I want you to take away here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember how good it felt when you were talking about what you liked about me as a therapist. I didn't say anything about my perspective. Did I
Gwenevere Abriel: All I did was say, Did I get that right. And then you have quiet time
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're like, there's more and then you came up another one. And I said, Did I get that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I said, Is there more and all I did was sit here like this. And I just held space for it or if you want to do the mirror. All I did was just keep reflecting back what you said kept mirroring it back to you. And then I would say, is there more
Gwenevere Abriel: Bringing up the mirror again. All I did was listen basically show you in real time. I'm listening. And how do I show you I'm listening. I use your words. When I say it again, the way I show you I'm listening to you. Matt is I use your words.
Matthew Montano: If you
Gwenevere Abriel: If you decide to use the word good and I use the word delish.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're gonna come back with me like
Matthew Montano: Yeah, you're not
Gwenevere Abriel: Listen to me. He doesn't listen
Matthew Montano: That's all right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't say the word. I know it seems picky, but in our mind. We have certain words then have long stories attached to them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Images and deep meaning for us. And when someone messes around and they use the wrong word. It doesn't doesn't match the picture that we have of how we're feeling words are the
Gwenevere Abriel: best that we can do to describe the internal phenomenon of the human experience is the best. We got and you mess around with him and use a different word you didn't listen to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is no joke, important, especially with the feeling word gotta get that one right don't mess around with it. Don't play with it. He says pissed you say pissed. Don't say angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: angry, angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll show you angry. Number one, have you gone pitch.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not kidding you, so silly like how could it be that easy. I'm going to be off by one word. That's ridiculous. Believe me, it's the emotion is the reason why we bother to talk to people. It's the reason why
Gwenevere Abriel: You're fighting you're putting up this effort, why you're here is because of an emotion. It's what motivates all of us what compels us inspires us propels us repulses us it's emotion. We want to get that right.
Uh huh. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah right at the beginning you said I want to see how couples counseling would go. Do you know what what I just taught you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is what I teach couples that is the how y'all want to talk about what tells on the floor. That's a year business. Y'all want to talk about sex drums partying. That's a year business but use tools that will work. Mm hmm.
Matthew Montano: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not couples therapy. It's what a couple's encounter might look like for you know in here. Now, if you guys. Let's say we did decide to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you have been able to kind of chill, just to leave and kind of bringing that tempo down just a little bit, you've been able to take in new information. Let's say you were able to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'd be hearing in here. It doesn't matter what you bring up, but are you sure you want to bring up one of your hot topics until you've learned the skill. Let's pick a really neutral topic. Let's just picture, who
Gwenevere Abriel: Is gonna pick up the mail each day one that doesn't activate either one of you emotionally. It's like
Gwenevere Abriel: don't really care that's a lot easier than having to juggle to move. Son of a. Right. Having that big reaction and having to learn something new when you're flooded with emotion. So what it would look like is he teaching a skill and probably I get a reading on your both of your ability.
Matthew Montano: Okay, so I'm getting this skill and I'm really taking in everything you're saying today. It's like it's it's a it's a breakthrough.
Matthew Montano: So I feel like maybe we should let him talk first
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't worry about that that does. You can leave that to me.
Matthew Montano: Okay, I'm just saying that. So you can see where he where he's at.
Gwenevere Abriel: In his that would be that would be no
Gwenevere Abriel: That would be what a couples therapist would do.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I do is teach a skill. Now, I don't need to be told who to go to. Who would I go to first. Who would I would work first with it would be Ryan because he's uncertain, he's afraid. What is this woman going to think of me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would be teaching him the skill first and we feel you would be doing the mirroring first or not, for the reason that you just said.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd be doing it because he doesn't know me from BU, and he wants to feel safe and secure. Am I
Gwenevere Abriel: Am I going to be this critical
Gwenevere Abriel: How is your day you know he doesn't know he doesn't know me.
Matthew Montano: He's a really, he's an overly trusting friendly friendly person. I can tell you that that's not going to be problems.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you wanted to know what would a couple's encounter look like in here. Do you understand it would be teaching a skill, I would not be the couples therapist, I would do, maybe three
Gwenevere Abriel: Or four, it really kind of depends. I'd be able to see immediately problem probably how volatile. You two are whether you have the ability to listen to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me teach the skill. If you guys couldn't do it. You were so hung up on content we put a pin in I'd say was lovely meeting you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see if we can get you a professional, but plenty of people that I've met with their either in a different zoom room maybe he's down the street in his car. You guys are nowhere near each other.
Gwenevere Abriel: Could also be, you know, in his own apartment, you're doing here, he could also be right on the couch across from you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Matthew Montano: And how does that help or what does that do
Gwenevere Abriel: Depends on the volatility in here, from what I can read from you. You're very excited and you, you want to tell the story you want this other person to really understand
Matthew Montano: Through these stories tell
Matthew Montano: And it's excited we're not one thing we don't do. We're not going to argue in front of another person.
Matthew Montano: We won't argue in front of another person.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so here's the thing. You do not know right now what you want from couples counseling.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have a vague idea, you have a vague idea because you said I want more communication, but you don't mind.
Matthew Montano: I want
Matthew Montano: I want communication like we just went through.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't give you an example. Right. That would be direct communication you were able to say things like
Gwenevere Abriel: I would like transparency.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now a couples therapist is going to talk to you about what transparency, the pros and cons of it.
Matthew Montano: Transparency is like
Gwenevere Abriel: I know what
Matthew Montano: Clear. Clear picture or
Gwenevere Abriel: I know what it is. You don't know. I know what it is, but that's a, that's a couples therapist to get into that new ones. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Audience What I would do in here because I'm your therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is I would, because it has been a sense of source of stress for you. I would do a couples intervention here and there. Maybe one maybe five, I don't know. I would decide that
Gwenevere Abriel: Obviously to and then you could say, oh, hey, this is nice. I like how we're talking to each other. But I want to get more into content. I want to talk about
Gwenevere Abriel: Infidelity I want to talk about how important honesty is what I see for the future really core values or I want to talk about. I have a chemical dependence on cocaine and I want to be able to, you would want to have another therapist.
Matthew Montano: Because you're not, that's not your specific your couples therapy is that
Gwenevere Abriel: You're still not hearing it. Well, you're yeah I think by the end of today and you've got four minutes. I think you'll get you ready
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you and I met. It was you. And Ryan.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the way we met you would call it up and said I need couples therapy coming in here that'd be fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are my weight. You are my unit client. IT IS YOU TO YOU ARE. The couple is the client. Okay, but because I met you here as an individual you forever more will be my client.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Yes. I'm not gonna switch
Huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's how I roll.
Gwenevere Abriel: My guilty. My fidelity is it's just this period. End of discussion. Now, other people can't see it because I actually have this ability of objectivity. That's great. I can really do that. I can
Gwenevere Abriel: I can really care about two people at the same time, but typically the way I work as a professional is I know underneath it all glory on a deep unconscious way I'm going to be biased towards you and I don't think it's fair Ryan into YouTube as a couple. So
Matthew Montano: And I pay you. So that's a
Matthew Montano: So you don't
Gwenevere Abriel: So just to review. I can do, I can do this. Just touch lightly. You might show up here together. You might be in a different zoom room that's, that's fine. He gets an account on this phone or something. That's fine. And I could teach a skill.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I will put a screeching halt on it if it looks so chaotic and so volatile that it's unproductive for you.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, I really don't think that will happen. We don't argue in front of people. Sometimes he will get emotional. But we'll see. We'll see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you don't quite get what volatile volatile.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to use the word productive if you hadn't been able to just now let me teach this skill. For example, it may have been unproductive.
Gwenevere Abriel: If each of you cannot be with the quiet.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no room to learn
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no room. All I'm going to do is teach a skill.
Gwenevere Abriel: To be quiet.
Matthew Montano: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Both of you if it turns out you can't do it, you're so excited to make your point, both of you so excited that no one can listen, I'm the only one listening and all. There is a stocking.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing. Nobody's mirroring nobody's going to be listening to a new skill. Everybody wants to be center stage trying to talk about their story. It will be on productive. That's why I remember in the beginning of this, I said we're not going to do it. We're not going to do it. Remember
Gwenevere Abriel: As you're so into telling these stories are very excited.
Gwenevere Abriel: To learn
Matthew Montano: Yeah, I see to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not about arguing
Gwenevere Abriel: It's about the space between the notes. We've got it for music to help them. We've got to have some space.
Gwenevere Abriel: In between the note that's how music. It's not just a day. Yeah, I like that beat. But that's not the only beat. I want a year, and I've done a little bit space.
Gwenevere Abriel: To beat
Gwenevere Abriel: What
Matthew Montano: Okay, so, um, I think that's a good idea, maybe it'd be next to me. He has an iPhone two and you'll be able to see both of us.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you're that close. I'm gonna tell you about technology and tell you right now. I tried it, it will fail.
Gwenevere Abriel: He can't be that close being on zoom the reverberation will be catastrophic. He would have to be like three rooms away. I don't know your apartments big enough. I'm just telling you how it is technologically, there's a little no technological stuff if you will have
Gwenevere Abriel: The awful.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You need some distance meaning apartment next door, kind of thing, or you guys can sit together or he could be in his apartment.
Matthew Montano: Yeah, okay. He was with his mom his mom so
Gwenevere Abriel: I was like, I had an issue.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not my issue.
Matthew Montano: But he could be in
Gwenevere Abriel: A separate zoom room and then there'll be no reverberation. They'll be no feedback. I think that's the word I was looking for.
Matthew Montano: Oranges oranges card.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I gotta go.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I gotta go like, I'm late for me. I can't believe I did that.
Matthew Montano: By